---
layout: "articles"
title: "Global Game Jam, ISU Game Development Club 2019"
publishedAt: "2019-02-18"
summary: "I received an email from the Game Development Club here at Iowa State about there upcoming Game Jam."
image: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*MVqNXfbIfdlOecwil1Z1Fg.png"
---

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*MVqNXfbIfdlOecwil1Z1Fg.png)

### Global Game Jam, ISU Game Development Club 2019

I received an email from the Game Development Club here at Iowa State about
there upcoming Game Jam. I decided I would get a few friends together and see
what we could come up with.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*aUCIB2NTYtliAD9u4kwEIA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  There were also a lot of these posters all around campus
</span>

I have been to 2 hackathons already so I kinda knew what to expect. One of the
hackathons we even made a game. This event was still pretty different than what
I was used to. Because this was not through [MLH ](https://mlh.io/)and just with
one of the clubs here at school there was obviously less funding but it was
still a great time we were in a great room on campus with big comfy bean bags,
whiteboard’s, and TV screens all while being on campus.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*SN0-QTXwBf0NGK6qytrG1g.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Left to right Ben, Josh, Jonathan (me), Jacob
</span>

Before the event started I met with my team at dinner to discuss what we wanted
to make. I really like meeting with my team beforehand to figure out how to
approach the event and come up with strategies and things to think about before
we actually get started, this makes things much smoother. During our talk, we
decided to make a simple mobile game with some sort of nostalgic quality, such
as one of the older phone games. We wouldn't know the theme until the night of
the event so we weren't able to plan too much. We did decide to code everything
in Javascript and found [Phaser.io](http://phaser.io/) as an html5 game engine.
We were planning on making the game for the web and then porting it over to
mobile if we had time.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*AXe3pfrWwY-3i0WH)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  I didn’t take that many pictures so… Photo by
  [rawpixel](https://unsplash.com/@rawpixel?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
  on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
</span>

The event started at 6 and my last className Friday was at 5 so just enough time to
grab something to eat before getting started. When we got there we were
introduced to the event with the video for the year which presented the theme
“Home”

This is the cringiest video probably sense youtube rewind 2018! If you want to
watch it go ahead it’s defiantly something. After the theme was announced we
reworked our initial idea and tried to come up with something that could apply
to the theme. We ended up deciding on making a verticle platformer where the
main game mechanic would be that in order to jump you would have to step on a
spring. As soon as we figured out the idea we got to work. The first step was to
get the game engine set up in a new project to be able to start coding the game
logic and test it. We started using a framework called
[Expo.io](https://expo.io/) to build our game for mobile but it ended up being
way too complicated to work with so we decided to simplify and use
[Express](https://expressjs.com/) as a way to host the game and
[localtunnel](https://localtunnel.github.io/www/) as a way to test the game on
our phones. As [Jacob ](https://roush.io/)(one of my teammates) and I were
working on getting everything set up codewise, [Josh
](https://github.com/Caplinja)and [Ben ](https://github.com/bdcohen1)were
working on drawing up some level designs and working through the different
objects that would be present in our game.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*7eedaXVpTtSulSkTJ-fQng.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  A few drawings for different level layouts
</span>

After we got the levels drawn up and we had an idea of all of the objects we
wanted to implement we all got to work on making the main game. I got to work on
creating the sprites and graphical elements of the game, Josh started working on
the menu system, Jacob was working on the server and backend, and Ben was
working directly on implementing the actual game elements.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*13tPh8TqsdD36LOXrKD2nw.png)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Sprite for the main character</span>

For the main project, we were using an example provided by [Phaser.io
Examples](http://phaser.io/examples) to work from and added our own assets and
code to the project. We were making a lot of progress but decided that we were
all pretty hungry and because there was no food provided we decided to order
pizza! It was some pretty great pizza, I kinda felt bad for the other teams just
sit there and watch us eat, but hey no one was stopping them from ordering their
own pizza

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*M6mCiHlWwkKODuSp)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Code and pizza go together very well, Photo by
  [Evelyn](https://unsplash.com/@evelynnnnn?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
  on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
</span>

There was something very strange that happened that first day, there was this
guy that was going around to all of the teams working and pitching his idea of
an “addictive game for good” he came over to us and started talking and he had
no substantial idea or anything that resembles anything more than half of an
idea. He told us that he didn’t want us to give him any ideas so that we
wouldn't sue him later for stealing it. He wanted us to email him if we were
interested and while making cool projects that help the world are always cool he
seemed like he had no idea what he was doing. We were also approached by a guy
that wanted to make a soundtrack for our game. The music was pretty sweet, If I
can find his SoundCloud I’ll link it here.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*wXGGOza5M1bh6RQF)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Photo by [Christopher Robin
  Ebbinghaus](https://unsplash.com/@cebbbinghaus?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
  on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com?utm_source=medium&utm_medium=referral)
</span>

After we finished eating and getting back into coding we started getting
something that was looking like a game. We decided to call it a night and get
some sleep that first night so we would be rested for the next day of coding. We
made a list of everything that we wanted to get accomplished the second day. At
the rate we were heading we were going to be able to finish in just two days
instead of three. We needed to finish up the game mechanics, make a few levels,
make it so that the game would scroll with the player and that it was able to be
played with a touchscreen. After we finished all of this we would pretty much be
done.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*G3TU503erpyKbdnbdOdcSw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  It was nice to have whiteboards we could use
</span>

The second day we all got back to the room at around 11 ish so we all got quite
a bit of sleep which was super nice. We got back and started working on
finishing up the game. I got the touch screen controls working eventually, Ben
got the gameplay finished up, and Josh and Jacob were finishing the tasks they
were doing too. We started working on getting the game deployed and online so
that it would be playable to everyone. We decided that [Heroku
](https://www.heroku.com/)would be the easiest and cheapest way to deploy our
game. We linked a new project with our GitHub repository and started the server.
We found out that there were quite a few errors with how we had things set up
and we started going through trying to find where the bugs were and fixing them.
We had some files that were not capitalized correctly and working on localhost
but not on the server and a few other things that we got fixed. We then started
work on the levels. We each made a level and Ben made two. The levels were
designed by copying and pasting the code of the element and adjusting the
coordinates so it was pretty tedious but we were able to make some pretty cool
levels (Level 2 the one I made is the best!). Also to tie in the theme we made
the goal a house because the character is going home.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*gnr-sB4DvnxIDb8mO0KvSw.png)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The sprite for the goal</span>

After we got it working to a point that we were happy with it we all started
playing it and getting the others in the room to play our game too to see how
they liked it.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*YBt1QFkWXBUPD5jbzIT85A.gif)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Playing level 1</span>

We named out project Spring Home because of our main mechanic and the theme.
Check out the website below to play the game. It works on mobile too!

[https://springhome.herokuapp.com/menu/](https://springhome.herokuapp.com/menu/)

Here is our game listing:

#### Spring Home

> It’s slightly below average but we like it! It’s all our first time
> participating in a hackathon. We used a new platform Phaser to make a responsive
> 2D html5 game.

Overall making this game was a great time, I learned a lot especially how
node.js, express, and phaser work. The team was great and we all had a lot of
fun. Our project turned out really cool. Every project I do the more I learn and
the better I get at coding projects and turning ideas into reality. For the Game
Jam, there were no prizes but it was definitely worth the time and effort put
into this little project. If you have made it this far reading about our game
check it out and write a response if you like it!

---

### Check out the Listing on Global Game Jam

### Check out the Repository on GitHub
