---
layout: "articles"
title: "HackKU 2019"
publishedAt: "2019-07-17"
summary: "This hackathon was the first out of state hackathon that I went to and the first MLH hackathon of the spring semester 2019"
image: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*LGMjheXp5gH8BaqRdivbZQ.png"
---

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*LGMjheXp5gH8BaqRdivbZQ.png)

### HackKU 2019

This hackathon was the first out of state hackathon that I went to and the first
[MLH](https://mlh.io/) hackathon of the spring semester 2019, the [Game
Jam](https://medium.com/@jonathannsegal/global-game-jam-isu-game-development-club-2019-ed170cb50eed)
was technically before this. Right before
[HackISU](https://medium.com/@jonathannsegal/hackisu-2018-c68569b826c7), I hurt
my hand really bad and after the hackathon I had my hand put in a cast which
severely impacted my ability to do hackathons, but this hackathon was after the
break and my hand was fine and we were ready for action!

The event started on Friday and we needed to leave at around 3 in order to get
there for dinner and opening ceremonies. So we decided to skip our Digital Logic
className which our entire team was taking, none of us really liked the className all
that much anyway. So at about 3, we were off in our rented
[Zipcar](https://www.zipcar.com/), I have a 2 seater truck and no one had a car
that we were able to take so we rented one. And we were off on our approximately
4 hr trip down to the University of Kansas.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*YkWUbGSsEBRqZ2KOSbVO0A.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The road trip to Kansas</span>

For our project, we discussed what we were going to do earlier in the week and
what prize categories that we were going for. What we really wanted to get was
the “Best use of Google Cloud Platform” prize because we all got Google Home
mini’s which was definitely one of the better prizes. For our project what we
came up with was something similar to the game capture the flag or [domination
in Call of Duty](https://www.ign.com/wikis/call-of-duty-black-ops-3/Domination),
Our idea was to have a large group of people using their phones log into a game
made by one of the players and to have to go and capture different targets and
whichever team had the most targets by the end of the game won.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*chliJOYBlJ9FVIDXJ2ZvQw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  When we got there we had to park at a lot a good distance away and walk over
  in the cold.
</span>

We went over to the LEAP 2 building which was super nice the building that we
were going to be staying in for the weekend and made our way to the registration
desk downstairs.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*rS67CIEDHN2EXqwXSMLsyw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  They had very few shirts left because they had way more people than
  anticipated.
</span>

After checking in we quickly put our stuff up in the hacking area with all the
tables upstairs and made our way over to the food and the opening ceremony. As
we were walking across outside between the two buildings Leep 2 and Eaton hall
there was an amazing iced over part of the sidewalk that everyone was sliding
on, unfortunately, I don't have a video but believe me it was pretty great. Once
we made it over they had two lines of food with pizza and salad and a whole
bunch of stuff the food game at Hack KU was off to a great start.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*NtBQfijbSGJyvX6zUbanVQ.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Food is very important at hackathons and KU did not disappoint.
</span>

Once we got our food we made our way into the main area and sat down, at this
time we met back up with Ben who drove done with some other students from Iowa
State and we waited for the opening ceremony to start.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*B35ZGyJbhtshSb6w_WyFvQ.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Everyone is waiting for this to end so we can start.
</span>

During the opening ceremony, they talked about how hackathons work, the
different categories that you could win for prizes and a few other things that
would be helpful during the weekend. They also told us that the main theme for
the weekend would be Social Good which we quickly found a way to justify our
idea to fit into that theme.

After the presentation, we went back to our table and set all of our stuff down
and made a game plan for how we were going to break up our time over the
weekend. We first decided that we were going to take some time initially and
talk through the process and fully understand what we were going to be making
then try to break that up into individual steps for each of us so that we would
all have a game plan and steps to follow so that none of our time would be
wasted and that each of us would not have any time that we were not able to do
anything, We quickly found out that nothing ever actually goes according to plan
but at least we tried.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*Yx35J38YZc36ebGdLdm9Dg.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Claiming our table and getting set for the rest of the weekend.
</span>

After getting our stuff set up we went back over to the other building because
Google was giving a talk on Google Cloud and because none of us were very
familiar with Google Cloud we all went over to try to learn how to get it set
up. This meeting was pretty helpful The guy giving the presentation actually
worked for Google and wasn’t just a student. We got the sample website set up
and working and got our free \$100 credit for the platform that we get at all
hackathons to let us mess around with it at no cost to us. After the
presentation, we got back and got to work white-boarding out our plan.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*lb-Z64GskzhxFYl3Ean5OA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  We wrote some stuff down and pretended we knew what it was.
</span>

I started drawing out what I thought the most important parts of the app would
be and talking through what I was thinking with the rest of the team. Our app
would have 3 main screens, one for players to set up the game mode and change
the settings of the map, another for connecting to the game, and the last the
game itself. There were a few other screens that we were thinking of adding
later but that we didn’t have time to make such as a leader board and lobby. For
the game modes, we listed all of the settings that we wanted to have control
over for each game. Finally, on the left of the whiteboard, we listed the main
things that we needed for our idea to become a reality such as being able to use
the GPS on a phone, real time updates across different devices, adding the
actual game logic, adding a UI, etc. Once we had everything written out we got
to work actually making the app.

Originally I was going to build out the UI, Ben and Jack were going to work on
the game logic, and Keegan was going to get the cloud set up. We started working
on it and everything was going smoothly until I made a login screen using
Google’s material web components and gave it to Keegan to deploy and that was
when everything stopped working. The web app would just not deploy and no matter
what we did we had loads of errors every time we tried to change settings to
figure out what was wrong with it. About this time was when Ben and Jack started
heading to bed because without the cloud service deployed there was only so much
they could work on with the game logic. Keegan and I stayed up the rest of the
night working on getting the cloud to work and to deploy or app. The frustrating
thing about deploying the app to the cloud was that every time that we tried to
deploy it Google Cloud would rebuild the entire application and it would take
close to 15 minutes every time so if we wanted to test something we wouldn't
know if it worked until 15 minutes later.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*DhLj-IVVWCot4MdJl-NvEA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">breakfast</span>

Before we knew it the time was getting close to 8 AM and breakfast. We decided
to take a break and head down to get bagels. During breakfast, Keegan and I
talked to one of the guys working for one of the sponsor companies of the event
(I forgot his name) he was a really cool guy that told us about how he liked
living in Kansas City and working in a tech company down there. He also gave us
some helpful advice on what we could try to maybe get out app working.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*5XKYlsmH10YeD8RxdVXdxA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Our Redbull stack was starting to form</span>

We started plugging away at getting the cloud service to work for the next few
hours still making no progress on what we were doing. At this point, Ben and
Jack were back and started working on their part of the project again and were
making good progress on integrating Google Maps API to be able to track users
location and create flags for the user to go and capture. Their development was
done all locally because at that point we did not have anything deployed. Both
Keegan and I were getting frustrated at this point, we spent a good 20 some
hours trying to get google cloud set up and got almost nowhere, Keegan was going
through all of the node modules and everything that came with Google’s material
components package while I started from scratch and tried to get something that
was super simple up and working. I eventually got a very simple website up and
working and added the components that we needed and eventually just copied the
code out of the node modules and put them directly inline to our project and we
ended up with only a few actual files because we were scared to mess with
routing in Google Cloud, but it finally worked.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*AS8pq7SCAojRZqaaS5p54A.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  The sleeping area was pretty full when I went down to sleep.
</span>

After Successfully getting the website deployed on Google Cloud Keegan and I
decided it was time to take a break and finally get some sleep. I was planning
on going to bed and getting up about an hour before the judging started to the
devpost page finalized and to help with any last minute issues that they were
having. Ben and Jack were fast at work making the game logic as fledged out as
possible with what they had and were able to do with the limited time.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*WGjcbQmQYFtgtdQ18fGg1A.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Someone decided to bring a tent.</span>

I woke up a bit earlier than my alarm was set for, I guess that’s what happens
when you drink an insane amount of redbull the day before. Once I was up I went
back to the group who was hard at work getting things finalized and ready for
the demo. At this point our app allowed you to login and go the the game screen,
on the game screen it shows an overlay of Google Maps and your position on the
map as well as a few generated points that you were able to walk over to and
change the color of. This was defiantly the minimum viable product if even but
at least it was something that we could show that explained what we were trying
to do.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*PfdV6sLZu5V5vaPOX-3znw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Things were starting to come together.</span>

As a result of the terrible way I got Google Cloud working by removing all
dependency’s we were not able to get more than one file working for each page so
everything had to be done inline for all of the logic and everything on the app
which caused a lot of problems. It was working at least and we had a decent
understanding of what we did and what it was doing at least.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*bXzNjaE4BhBmx6uFoTSKWw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  The Redbull stack that weekend was pretty impressive.
</span>

We all drank way to much Redbull but it was totally worth it! Everyone on the
team put in a ton of effort to making our app happen and even though because of
the cloud deployment we were very short on time we all had a great time and
learned a lot. In the future we will probably try to make something similar for
another hackathon because we made so much actual progress other than just
setting up the most basic back end part of the app we could probably take this
same idea and make something very impressive that looks nothing like what we
made here. The planning and Idea that we came up with was definitely not the
problem, our problem was how long it took us to figure out how to deploy the app
to the cloud.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*ul6or98vIG4Vk1NfidlKpw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  The Squad getting the DevPost article set up for submission.
</span>

As always we had to get the DevPost page for our project set up. For this I took
a few pictures of the team and of the app running and went to work writing out
the fields that it has us fill in. The link to the DevPost page is at the bottom
of the article.

### Paint the World

Keegan

> I did development on the Google Cloud platform and brought our project to life
> through infrastructure development. I helped my team bring our app online and
> make it a working, scalable game!

Jack

> I worked with the google maps API for the first time. Me and Ben discovered how
> to input a google map into a web page as well as how to receive constant updates
> from a device. The scripting is written in Java script a language which I had
> little experience in but now feel comfortable with.

Jonathan

> I forgot to do a write up on devpost

Ben

> Ben didn’t either

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*4L8X3liqzy976HGLsCi3FA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Everyone is getting food and making final changes before judging.
</span>

During the Judging of our project we had two sets of judges come over to our
table and score our project. The judges were professors that taught at KU. The
first set of judges came over and were pretty critical of the main premise of
our project saying that GPS is not the most accurate way to locate a phone and
that it might not work depending on the environment of the user. The other judge
[Brian McClendon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_McClendon) was actually
the creator of Google Maps and was impressed with our project and asked us how
we liked working the the API. He also gave us some good idea’s of things that we
could improve on our app. Overall the consensus of the group was that compared
to the judging being done by the companies sponsoring the event having
professors do it was not as good. We thought that the professors were very
interested in the technical aspect of what we created whereas the company
representative’s at other hackathons were looking more at the practical
application of the idea and how far we got along to making that with a minimum
viable product. Overall the judging went fine but this was the main thing that
we would like to see change at HackKU for next year.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*habyn-UxcFUXsppeCUUIrA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">I got my I Demoed Sticker</span>

After getting our project judged we all got our “I Demoed” MLH stickers which is
the official certificate of you participating in a hackathon! We also went
around to the other projects and looked at what everyone else did. Some of the
projects were really cool. It is great looking at what others have created at
these events, you spend so much time working on your own little project its nice
to see what the other teams have made when everyone is done.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*ywDY3pitb-j_kyvjOiLNbA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The Squad</span>

“Overall we had a great weekend down in Kansas. The space we had was great, the
food was pretty good and we all learned a lot. What I learned from the time
before this was to set out a plan, which we did but the hard part was being able
to execute the plan. Next time what we should do is really access what we think
is realistically possible and scale back the idea until we think it is way to
easy because that is when realistically you have enough time to actually finish
something.”

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*llEuTHfFXelFaKzZ8cwPIQ.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The food was AMAZING</span>

On the way back from KU we stopped in Kansas City at this burger place that was
really good, would defiantly recommend.

---

### Check out the Project on Devpost

### Check out the Repository on GitHub
