---
layout: "articles"
title: "Moving to Australia"
publishedAt: "2020-01-20"
summary: "Imagine a freezing cold day with a foot of muddy snow on the sidewalks as you wake up"
image: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2600/1*ZyPbbUxD4w2bCU85ojDdgw.jpeg"
---

### Moving to Australia

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2600/1*ZyPbbUxD4w2bCU85ojDdgw.jpeg)

Imagine a freezing cold day with a foot of muddy snow on the sidewalks as you
wake up, then imagine that you have to start the half mile walk through this
tundra to go to className, every single day of the week! This was Iowa and I was
definitely not prepared for another Midwest winter so what does one logically
do… fly halfway across the planet and do a study abroad in Australia.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*8w2HjqKqBDggkjVimol-tQ.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Iowa State in the winter</span>

Let me back up a bit and talk about how I got here. After high school I went to
a small christian college in California.I only stayed there for a semester after
deciding it wasn’t for me. I then went to the University of Iowa for a semester
and after the same realization ended up at Iowa State University and have been
attending there ever scene. The point is jumping around to different schools is
nothing new to me but studying in a foreign country is. From the first time I
visited the Iowa State campus I was talking with how I need to plan for studying
abroad. The first question I was asked was where do you want to go? My choices
were Hong Kong and Australia and now for obvious reasons I am in Australia.

> Staying in one city, state, or country can really limit your breadth of
> perspective.

I have always been very passionate about traveling,experiencing different
cultures, and seeing the world. Staying in one city, state, or country can
really limit your breadth of perspective. I felt that participating in study
abroad would be an important chapter of my life in which I would be immersed in
a unknown culture and left to find my own way. The though of this was
exhilarating and this brings me back to the point where I am flying halfway
across the planet to Australia. The schools that I was able to choose from with
Iowa State were the University of Newcastle or the University of New South
Wales. From the beginning I wanted to be in one of Australia’s beautiful cities
so UNSW it was which is located in Sydney, NSW.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*3elWwSB_DfY_fBI6rywdPQ.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Flying into Sydney</span>

Sydney is such a beautiful city from it’s countless beaches to its towering
skyscrapers and everything in between this place is truly incredible. I’m
excited to be attending UNSW as well, it is an incredible world renowned
university and while the school is definitely not the main focus of doing study
abroad its nice to be at such a good school. I’m super excited to experience
everything that Australia has to offer and explore as much as I can. One of the
best parts of going to Australia though definitely has to be that it is
currently summer here and it’s about 80° F most days. Although the bush fires
have been devastating to this country most of them are now put out or under
control and the recent rain has really helped with the drought and the fires.
Supper excited to really start becoming an Australian until next time G’day
Mate!

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*AAWBDIov4l4WCJSA)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The University of New South Wales</span>
