---
layout: "articles"
title: "PickHacks 2019"
publishedAt: "2019-08-06"
summary: "The next big hackathon was PickHacks which was at Missouri S&T. I tried to get as many of my friends as possible to all head down to Missouri for the weekend."
image: "https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*5eOEY8E8Mm8-FQelckwYkw.png"
---

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*5eOEY8E8Mm8-FQelckwYkw.png)

### PickHacks 2019

The next big hackathon was PickHacks which was at Missouri S&T. I tried to get
as many of my friends as possible to all head down to Missouri for the weekend.
I got a few of my friends and during the week before leaving we talked about
what we were going to make and the game plan for the event. My teams also had
one of the people from my last hackathon at Illinois Philip who was going to be
there too. Friday afternoon we all got together and made the 6 hour-long trip
down to Missouri.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*evPlHDG9siprcWKDpwTAyA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Driving There</span>

Because we had two teams we came up with as many ideas as possible together
while brainstorming and decided what the best ones were and broke into teams
based on what each of us found most interesting. I really wanted to do something
with hockey because the theme was sports but some of my friends wanted to build
an app that tracks food so those were our two ideas. We then came discussed how
we were going to approach our projects and came up with a plan.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*RWG6HcB2Uv9AsTQ_eRSi7Q.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Our beautiful drawing of the idea</span>

After getting to the school we made our way inside to the main lobby. There were
a bunch of others at this hackathon it was one of the larger ones that I have
been too.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*otRkG825yrKJyo6BTUyd7g.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The main lobby at Missouri S&T</span>

By the time we got there we were running a little late on time so we went up and
got checked in and went to the opening ceremony.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*GheR7lbAo9_rFH_qHF0fgw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Waiting in line to check-in</span>

The opening ceremony was pretty cool, [Mike
Swift](https://www.linkedin.com/in/theycallmeswift) the guy who started MLH was
there to talk about his story and how he started MLH. The others that spoke were
from the companies that were sponsoring the weekend, they all talked about their
companies and the prizes that their companies were sponsoring.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*KCZHtL5oSFtdq6Ft3gXpMw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Opening Ceremony with Mike Swift!</span>

After the opening ceremony, we only had 3 people on our team and we wanted to be
eligible for the women's hack prize because we already had one girl on our team
so we talked to another girl and had her join our team to help us with our
project. After getting settled into our table we went over to check out some
hardware to try to get something hocked up to the hockey sticks we originally
thought about using Arduinos

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*Vzmuw5Fot45oK_0a3rYx1A.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The MLH hardware Lab</span>

Dinner was served shortly after and we all made our way down to the line in the
main lobby.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*_L3OmFP-V26XA-AohI3XBA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Food!</span>

We decided that using Arduino was going to be too challenging so we switched
over to just using our phones.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*aRagnH4-AYhGHxyAg7ueuA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Talking with some of the companies</span>

We started working on getting everything set up we decided to use firebase to
transmit data from the phones to a web application that would track all the
phones and data.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*rQTHxweaSFgoNNBwI4k2aw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Other ISU team</span>

The other team from Iowa state got to work as well and found someone else to
work with from Missouri.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*o6uwIVDJgdU_a1HOce_dvA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">
  Ellissa got second place in musical chairs
</span>

My team took a quick break to play musical chairs.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*neihRHJk9TmHc5HccLK8ag.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Getting the makeshift hockey net setup</span>

We got a hockey net set up to play around with our project and to test to see if
the calculations for tracking location and speed were working. Right before we
were about to demo we broke things and one of the mentors helped us get our app
working and thankfully we got it working right before we submitted it.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*0Z8yloR8QOrJiPrG068ylw.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Presenting our project</span>

We got a special spot at the end of the hallway to demo our project because of
how much space we needed to set up the hockey net.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*sGqihUQSuZx56iQwxPlb2A.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The Squad</span>

The judges had a lot of fun with our project they all got to see how hard they
were able to shoot the ball into the net and compare how hard their swings were.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*PejqvApj0A-uVDPxn2swnA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">Talking about the project</span>

Because we were top five we demoed our project in front of everyone at the
event.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*InmHKBNm146-2UDfdA7y8Q.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">We got second place!</span>

We won second place! Here is a recap video check it out.

<span className="figcaption_hack">Iâ€™m in this for a split second!</span>

---

### Check out the Project on Devpost

### Check out the Repository on GitHub

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*nzsurEsMAMRupijLgMfJOA.jpeg)

<span className="figcaption_hack">The top three teams</span>

This was a great event overall and the first one where my team placed. Our
project was big and interactive and that was a big reason why we won.

If you want to watch the whole closing ceremony here it is.
